# A/B Testing

* Feature test is not used when doing Blue Green Deployments. A/B Testing solves this.
* A/B Testing sends a percentage of traffic to Blue environment and a percentage to Green environment.
* It separates different versions of your code, which may have different reliability or performance.
* It allows a gradual performance/stability/health analysis.
* It allows new features to be tested with a subset of visitors
* If bugs are detected, rollback can be done quickly and there'll be a minimal damage.

## Scenario 1

* Environment A starts with 100% of traffic directed at the current (Blue) environment.
* When the deployment completes, the distribution of traffic is changed to direct a small amount of users at the new environment (Green).
* As confidence grows, the distribution is reversed.
* Finally 100% of traffic is directed at the Green environment and the confidence reaches previous levels, the Blue environment can be decomissioned.

## How it's performed on AWS

* Using Route53:
    * Two records are created, one pointing to A and the other pointing to B.
    * This is called Round-Robing with a 50/50 request distribution.
    * Weighted Round-Robing is an advanced feature where you can specify a weight for each environment, which allows a granular and adjustable distribution such as: 100%/0%, 70%/30%, 50%/50% or anything in between.
    * **IMPORTANT**: As it's based on DNS, caching and other DNS related issues can impact the overall accuracy of this technique.
